CloudWatch monitors your AWS cloud resources
and applications and reports metrics in real time.
It can be used to track metrics and log files,
configure usage alarms, and make changes to
your AWS infrastructure based on metrics and changes that it detects in the environment.
The CloudWatch page already tracks and displays metrics and data about
the AWS services you're using without any additional configuration on your part.
You can optionally create custom dashboards
configured to display data about the metrics that matter most to you.
Additionally, CloudWatch can be configured on
individual instances to capture metrics that can be viewed and EC2,
as well as the CloudWatch dashboard.
Cloudwatch alarms can serve two purposes.
In addition to notify you if your alarm threshold has been reached,
it can also take action on the monitored resource based on your alarm configuration.
For example, if it detects an instance
running at a CPU that breaches the alarm threshold,
it can launch additional instances to address the immediate need and
stop instances that are being underutilized using the same logic.
CloudWatch pricing is based on custom metrics and pricing varies by region.
For the purposes of this course,
the services we are using should be covered under the free tier.
If you plan to explore a capturing metrics for services outside the free tier,
please familiarize yourself with the CloudWatch pricing documentation
and make sure you set appropriate billing alarms to avoid unexpected charge.
So let's take a look at creating a CloudWatch alarm for
an EC2 Instance that takes an action when the alarm threshold is met.
So what we're going to do is we're going to open
the EC2 management page and
select and instance that we'd like to create an alarm for.
So I've selected this running instance here,
the one here at the top.
You'll notice that there is some content down at the bottom of the page.
If you need to, just scroll it up so that you can see what you're doing here.
We're going to go to the third tab,
monitoring, and we're going to create an alarm.
We see in the CloudWatch alarms,
there are no CloudWatch alarms currently configured for this EC2 Instance,
so we're going to create one.
Because we don't have any SNS topics right now,
we'll just uncheck that.
You can create that later if you like.
But what we want this alarm to do is,
we want this alarm to reboot this EC2 Instance when
the CPU utilization average is greater than 90 percent,
for at least one consecutive period of five minutes.
You can play around with this 15 minutes,
two consecutive periods of 15 minutes, whatever you like,
whatever makes sense to you when it comes to your application.
So if you know that after five minutes of CPU at 90 percent,
that means that you've got a memory leak or something like that,
you want your alarm to reboot your instance,
then you'd want to name your alarm memory leak, and create it.
Once you've created your alarm,
you'll get a success window that pops up and it will
provide you with a link to your alarm on the CloudWatch page.
So let's click on that and the CloudWatch
management console open and show us our newly created alarm.
So we've got a tiny little metric here.
Our CPU utilization is at six percent.
We'll see this red line here,
that's our 90 percent threshold.
It doesn't look like we're in any danger right now,
how many memory leaks are,
you just never know.
So that is how you create a CloudWatch alarm for an EC2 Instance. Thank you.